# CS540-assignment3

# 1. Linear Hash Index

The objective of this assignment is to learn how to implement index structures on data stored in the external memories.

Assume that we have a relation Employee(id, name, bio, manager-id). The values of id and manager-id are integers each with the fixed sizes of 8 bytes. The values of name and bio are
character strings and take at most 200 and 500 bytes, respectively. Note that as opposed to the values of id and manager-id, the sizes of the values of name and bio are not fixed and are between 1 to 200 (500) bytes. The size of each page is 4096 bytes (4KB). The size of each record is less than the size of a page. Using the provided skeleton code with this assignment, write a C or C++ program that **creates a hash index file** for relation Employee using attribute id. Your programmust also enable users to search the created index by providing the id of a record.

- **The Input File**: The input relation is stored in a CSV file, i.e., each tuple is in a separate line and fields of each record are separated by commas. Your program must assume that the input CSV file is in the current working directory, i.e., the one from which your program is running, and its name is Employee.csv. We have included an input CSV file with this assignment as a sample test case for your program. Your program must create and search hash indexes correctly for other CSV files with the same fields as the sample file.

- **Index File Creation**: Your program must read the input Employee relation and build a linear hash index for the relation using attribute id. Your program must store the hash index in a file with the name EmployeeIndex on the current working directory. You may use one of the methods explained for storing variable-length records and the method described on storing pages of variable-length records in our lectures on storage management to store records and blocks in the index file. They are also explained in Sections 9.7.2 and 9.6.2 of Cow Book, respectively. You can reuse your code for Assignment 2 to store pages in the index file. **Your index file must be a binary data file and not a text or CSV file**.

- **Index Parameters**: You must use hash function h = idmod216. Your program must increment the value of n if the average number of records per each page exceeds 70% of the page capacity.
- **Main Memory Limitation**: During the index creation, your program can keep up to three pages plus the directory of the hash index in main memory at any time. The submitted solutions that use more main memory will not get any points.
- **Searching the Index File**: After finishing the index creation, your program must accept an Employee id in its command line and search the index file for all records of the given id. Like index creation, your program may use up to three pages plus the directory of the hash index in main memory at any time. The submitted solutions that use more main memory will not get any points for implementing lookup operation. The user of your program may search for records of multiple ids, one id at a time.